README.md, before:

# Conference planner

A demo application used to demonstrate features of service meshes. It mimics a simple planning tool for conferences where speakers and sessions can be maintained and a resulting schedule can be displayed. 

It consists of four services:

* Speaker
* Session
* Schedule
* Frontend

It is prepared to demo routing features like A/B Testing, observability and resilience features by configureable delays and failures. 

**Notice:** This is not an example of a good microservice architecture. It is for demonstration purposes of service mesh functionality only. In a real world application the functionality would probably be in a single service and would not need a service mesh.

## Installation

### Building and pushing the images from source

To build all images and push them to a registry use:

```
./build_and_push.sh <registry_prefix>
```
The argument is a prefix used for tagging and specifying the registry where the images will be pushed. If you are pushing to Docker Hub this would be your username. 

Make sure you logged in to the registry before starting the script. 

#### Open Issues

Currently this will only build single architecture images corresponding to the architecture used to build them. Please be aware when building on ARM CPUs.  

### Installing and testing in Kubernetes 

In the folder kubernetes is a number of configurations for different scenarios

#### basic.yaml

This is the full setup of all services without any additional features like Traffic split or failures. 
Apply using:

```
kubectl apply -f basic.yaml
```

To view the application from your local host use port-forward:

```
kubectl port-forward service/frontend-proxy 8080:8080
```

Then open http://localhost:8080 on your local browser.

## Usage in advanced scenarios

### A/B Testing

Inside the folder kubernetes is a configuration that includes a Traffic split for e.g. A/B Testing the frontend. It also installs two frontend versions. They use different environment variables to show different designs. 
Apply using:

```
kubectl apply -f a_b.yaml
```

The Split is set to 50%. To test it just reload the webapplication or start the load-generator and observe the result in the service-mesh dashboard.

### Blue Green Release

### Canary Release

### Delay-injection

### Failure injection

### Open Telemetry

## Running locally for development

### Install Rust and Cargo

You will need to have Rust and it's build-tool cargo installed. The recommended way to install them is rustup which can be found under https://rustup.rs/ 

### Add services to /etc/hosts

Add the following to your local /etc/hosts:

```
# for demo app
127.0.0.1       speakers
127.0.0.1       schedule
127.0.0.1       sessions
127.0.0.1       frontend
```

This simulates the DNS Discovery usually done by Kubernetes and the service mesh.

### Starting all services together

There is a command to start all services at once. Just call:

```
./run-all.sh
```

This will use cargo run on all submodules. When you interrupt the command with ctrl-c you will kill all services together.

Commit message:

Kubernetes file also uses alternate design.

README.md, after:

# Conference planner

A demo application used to demonstrate features of service meshes. It mimics a simple planning tool for conferences where speakers and sessions can be maintained and a resulting schedule can be displayed. 

It consists of four services:

* Speaker
* Session
* Schedule
* Frontend

It is prepared to demo routing features like A/B Testing, observability and resilience features by configureable delays and failures. 

**Notice:** This is not an example of a good microservice architecture. It is for demonstration purposes of service mesh functionality only. In a real world application the functionality would probably be in a single service and would not need a service mesh.

## Installation

### Building and pushing the images from source

To build all images and push them to a registry use:

```
./build_and_push.sh <registry_prefix>
```
The argument is a prefix used for tagging and specifying the registry where the images will be pushed. If you are pushing to Docker Hub this would be your username. 

Make sure you logged in to the registry before starting the script. 

#### Open Issues

Currently this will only build single architecture images corresponding to the architecture used to build them. Please be aware when building on ARM CPUs.  

### Installing and testing in Kubernetes 

In the folder kubernetes is a number of configurations for different scenarios

#### basic.yaml

This is the full setup of all services without any additional features like Traffic split or failures. 
Apply using:

```
kubectl apply -f basic.yaml
```

To view the application from your local host use port-forward:

```
kubectl port-forward service/frontend-proxy 8080:8080
```

Then open http://localhost:8080 on your local browser.

## Usage in advanced scenarios

### A/B Testing

Inside the folder kubernetes is a configuration that includes a Traffic split for e.g. A/B Testing the frontend. It also installs two frontend versions. They use different environment variables to show different designs. 
Apply using:

```
kubectl apply -f a_b.yaml
```

The Split is set to 50%. To test it just reload the webapplication or start the load-generator and observe the result in the service-mesh dashboard.

The frontend container reacts on setting an environment variable `ALTERNATE_DESIGN`. If that is set, some colors will change so that the alternate version is visible.

### Blue Green Release

### Canary Release

### Delay-injection

### Failure injection

### Open Telemetry

## Running locally for development

### Install Rust and Cargo

You will need to have Rust and it's build-tool cargo installed. The recommended way to install them is rustup which can be found under https://rustup.rs/ 

### Add services to /etc/hosts

Add the following to your local /etc/hosts:

```
# for demo app
127.0.0.1       speakers
127.0.0.1       schedule
127.0.0.1       sessions
127.0.0.1       frontend
```

This simulates the DNS Discovery usually done by Kubernetes and the service mesh.

### Starting all services together

There is a command to start all services at once. Just call:

```
./run-all.sh
```

This will use cargo run on all submodules. When you interrupt the command with ctrl-c you will kill all services together.
